.TH HASHCKACKER 1 "June 2026" "hashcracker 0.1" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
hashcracker \- GPU\-accelerated password cracker
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B hashcracker
[\fIOPTIONS\fR] [\fIPASSWORD\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
hashcracker is a GPU\-accelerated password cracker supporting 41 hash types.
It runs on Vulkan, Metal, and DirectX 12 via wgpu, requiring no CUDA or OpenCL
driver installation. Targets can be specified as raw hex hashes, prefixed
formats (e.g. \(la$1$salt$hash\(ra), or hashlist files.
.SH OPTIONS
.SS Attack Configuration
.TP
.B \-m, \-\-mode \fIMODE\fR
Attack mode: brute, wordlist, mask, hybrid, prince, single, markov, incremental
(default: brute).
.TP
.B \-\-hash\-type \fITYPE\fR
Hash type (default: auto). See list of 41 supported types below.
.TP
.B \-w, \-\-wordlist \fIFILE\fR
Wordlist file path.
.TP
.B \-\-mask \fIPATTERN\fR
Mask pattern. Characters: ?l (lower), ?u (upper), ?d (digit), ?a (all).
.TP
.B \-\-prefix
Prepend word to mask result (default is suffix).
.TP
.B \-\-salt \fISALT\fR
Static salt for hash computation.
.TP
.B \-\-rules \fIFILE\fR
Rules file (hashcat\-compatible .rule syntax).
.TP
.B \-\-rules\-stack \fIFILE\fR
Stacked rules files applied sequentially (repeatable).
.TP
.B \-\-filter \fIFILTER\fR
Filter constraints: min=X, max=X, chars=abc (repeatable).
.SS Target Specification
.TP
.B \-\-hash \fIHASH\fR
Single target hash (hex string or prefixed format).
.TP
.B \-\-hashlist \fIFILE\fR
Hashlist file (one hash per line, supports user:hash format).
.SS Attack Modes
.TP
.B \-\-prince\-dict \fIFILE\fR
Prince mode dictionary file for word\-concatenation chains.
.TP
.B \-\-loopback
Use potfile cracked passwords as wordlist input.
.TP
.B \-\-stdout
Generate candidate passwords to stdout (no cracking).
.SS Session and Persistence
.TP
.B \-\-session \fINAME\fR
Session name for save/resume.
.TP
.B \-\-potfile \fIFILE\fR
Custom potfile path (default: ~/.hashcracker/potfile).
.SS Display Modes
.TP
.B \-\-show
Show cracked passwords from potfile.
.TP
.B \-\-left
Show remaining (uncracked) hashes.
.TP
.B \-\-quiet
Only output cracked passwords, suppress progress and banner.
.TP
.B \-\-verbose
Show detailed per\-event GPU stats.
.TP
.B \-\-hex
Output cracked password as hex\-encoded string.
.TP
.B \-\-json
Machine\-readable JSON\-line output per event.
.SS Utility
.TP
.B \-\-bench
Benchmark all supported hash types.
.TP
.B \-\-extract \ITYPE\fR
Extract hash from file. Supported: pdf, zip.
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Print help.
.TP
.B \-V, \-\-version
Print version.
.SS Hash Type Aliases
.TP
.B md5, sha1, sha256, sha512, sha224, sha384
Standard hash algorithms.
.TP
.B md4, ntlm, lm
Windows hash types.
.TP
.B md5crypt, sha256crypt, sha512crypt
Unix crypt(3) formats.
.TP
.B bcrypt, apr1, phpass, drupal7
Web application hash types.
.TP
.B mysql41, mssql05, mssql12, postgresql, db2
Database password hashes.
.TP
.B salted\-sha1, salted\-sha256, salted\-sha512
Salted hash formats.
.TP
.B pbkdf2\-sha256, hmac\-sha1, hmac\-sha256, hmac\-sha512
Key derivation and MAC formats.
.TP
.B sha256d, sha512d
Double\-hash formats (Bitcoin).
.TP
.B ntlmv2, dcc, dcc2
Windows domain cache formats.
.TP
.B crc32, grub2
Checksum and bootloader formats.
.TP
.B pdf, wpa, pkzip, keepass, 7z, rar5
Encrypted document and archive formats.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Crack raw MD5:
hashcracker \-\-hash e99a18c428cb38d5f260853678922e03
.TP
Wordlist \+ rules:
hashcracker \-\-hashlist hashes.txt \-\-wordlist rockyou.txt \-\-rules best64.rule
.TP
Mask attack:
hashcracker \-\-hash e99a18c428cb38d5f260853678922e03 \-\-mode mask \-\-mask '?l?l?d?d?d'
.TP
PRINCE mode:
hashcracker \-\-hash '$6$salt$hash' \-\-mode prince \-\-prince\-dict words.txt
.TP
Benchmark:
hashcracker \-\-bench
.TP
Extract and crack:
hashcracker \-\-extract pdf document.pdf \-\-wordlist rockyou.txt
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
0
Successful program execution (at least one hash cracked, or no error).
.TP
1
An error occurred (invalid hash, file not found, unsupported mode).
.SH FILES
.TP
~/.hashcracker/potfile
Default potfile storing cracked passwords.
.SH BUGS
Report bugs at https://github.com/anomalyco/hashcracker/issues
.SH AUTHORS
anomalyco
